docs: add a tensor section to docs (#1576)
docarray/docarray: docs/data_types/tensor/tensor.md

# Tensor

> DocArray support several tensor type that can be used inside BaseDoc. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DocArray support several tensor types that can be used inside BaseDoc. 
```

The main ones are : 

> - [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] for numpy tensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] for numpy tensors
```

> - [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] for Pytorch tensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] for Pytorch tensors
```

> - [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] for tensorflow tensor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] for tensorflow tensors
```

> The three of them inherit from their respective framework tensor type. This means that they can be used natively inside their framework.

Reviewer: This is not true for tensorflow. For the other ones i would stress this point more.

Author: fair

> We also have a [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] that is the Union of the three previous tensor type. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DocArray also supports [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] which is the Union of the three previous tensor types. 
```

This is a generic placeholder to specify that it can work with any tensor type (numpy, torch, tensorflow).

> ## Tensor typed validation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tensor type validation
```

> You don't need to instantiate directly the  [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] , [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor], [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] directly by yourself. They are only use as type hint field fot the [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] validation.
> [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] will cast the native tensor type into the respective DocArray tensor type.
> 
> Let's take an example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You don't need to directly instantiate the  [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] , [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor], or [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] by yourself.

Instead, you should use them as type hints on [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] fields, where they perform data validation.
During this process, [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] will cast the native tensor type into the respective DocArray tensor type.

Let's take an example:
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

import numpy as np

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray

doc = MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros(100))

assert isinstance(doc.tensor, NdArray)  # True
``` 

> here you see that the `doc.tensor` is a `NdArray`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here you see that the `doc.tensor` is an `NdArray`. 
```

```python
assert isinstance(doc.tensor, np.ndarray)  # True as well
``` 

> But since it inherits from `np.ndarray` you can use it as a numpy array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But since it inherits from `np.ndarray` you can also use it as a normal numpy array. The same holds for pytorch and `TorchTensor`.
```

## Type coercion from numpy to pytorch 

!!! note

>     If you pass a numpy array to a pytorch tensor field, the numpy array will be converted to a pytorch tensor. 

Author: my fault it is fixed now

> example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:
```

from docarray.typing import TorchTensor
import numpy as np

class MyTensorsDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor1: TorchTensor[512]
    tensor2: TorchTensor[512]

rand_series_f64 = np.random.rand(512).astype('float64')
rand_series_f32 = np.random.rand(512).astype('float32')

doc = MyTensorsDoc(tensor1=rand_series_f64, tensor2=rand_series_f32)
doc.summary()
```

```
📄 MyTensorsDoc : 84877dd ...
╭──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Attribute            │ Value                                                                                    │
├──────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ tensor1: TorchTensor │ TorchTensor of shape (512,), dtype: torch.float64                                        │
│ tensor2: TorchTensor │ TorchTensor of shape (512,), dtype: torch.float32                                        │
╰──────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

But this is not the case if you pass a numpy array to a tensorflow tensor field. 

!!! warning 

>     Tensor field type coercion is only supported from numpy to pytorch, not the other way around.

Author: this is @Tanguyabel section fyi

>     Tensor field type coercion is only supported from numpy to pytorch, not the other way around.

Author: what is not true ?

>     Tensor field type coercion is only supported from numpy to pytorch, not the other way around.

Reviewer 2: Please ensure correct capitalization for NumPy, PyTorch, TensorFlow

## DocVec with AnyTensor

DocVec can be used with a BaseDoc which has a field of [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] or a Union of tensor type. 

 But to do so DocVec needs to know the tensor type of the tensor field beforehand to create the right column.
 

> You can precise these parameters with the `tensor_type` parameter of the [`DocVec`][docarray.vectorizer.doc_vec.DocVec] constructor.

Author: No it is only about Union. Otherwise it already know what is the expected tensor types.

This has been changed very early in the DocVec design I think

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc, DocVec
from docarray.typing import AnyTensor, NdArray

import numpy as np

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: AnyTensor

docs = DocVec[MyDoc](
    [MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros(100)) for _ in range(10)], tensor_type=NdArray
)

assert isinstance(docs.tensor, NdArray)
```

!!! note

>     If you don't precise the `tensor_type` parameter it will use NdArray as default.

Author: faire my bad

# Tensor

DocArray support several tensor types that can be used inside BaseDoc. 

The main ones are:

- [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] for numpy tensors
- [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] for Pytorch tensors
- [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] for tensorflow tensors

The three of them wrap from their respective framework tensor type. 

!!! note
    [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] and [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] are a subclass of their native tensor type. This means that they can be used natively inside their framework.

!!! note

>     [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] stores the pure `tf.Tensor` object inside the `tensor` attribute. This is due to a limitation on the TensorFlow framework that does not allow to subclass the `tf.Tensor` object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] stores the pure `tf.Tensor` object inside the `tensor` attribute. This is due to a limitation of the TensorFlow framework that prevents you from subclassing the `tf.Tensor` object.
```

> DocArray also supports [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] which is the Union of the three previous tensor types. 
> This is a generic placeholder to specify that it can work with any tensor type (numpy, torch, tensorflow).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
DocArray also supports [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor], which is the Union of the three previous tensor types. 
This is a generic placeholder to specify that it can work with any tensor type (NumPy, PyTorch, TensorFlow).
```

## Tensor type validation

You don't need to directly instantiate the  [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] , [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor], or [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] by yourself.

Instead, you should use them as type hints on [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] fields, where they perform data validation.
During this process, [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] will cast the native tensor type into the respective DocArray tensor type.

> Let's take an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at an example:
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

import numpy as np

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray

doc = MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros(100))

assert isinstance(doc.tensor, NdArray)  # True
``` 

> Here you see that the `doc.tensor` is an `NdArray`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here you see that the `doc.tensor` is an `NdArray`:
```

```python
assert isinstance(doc.tensor, np.ndarray)  # True as well
``` 

> But since it inherits from `np.ndarray` you can also use it as a normal numpy array. The same holds for pytorch and `TorchTensor`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But since it inherits from `np.ndarray`, you can also use it as a normal NumPy array. The same holds for PyTorch and `TorchTensor`.
```

## Type coercion from NumPy to PyTorch 

> If you pass a numpy array to a pytorch tensor field, the numpy array will be converted to a pytorch tensor. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you pass a NumPy array to a PyTorch tensor field, it will be converted to a PyTorch tensor. 
```

> Example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example:
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import TorchTensor
import numpy as np

class MyTensorsDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor1: TorchTensor[512]
    tensor2: TorchTensor[512]

rand_series_f64 = np.random.rand(512).astype('float64')
rand_series_f32 = np.random.rand(512).astype('float32')

doc = MyTensorsDoc(tensor1=rand_series_f64, tensor2=rand_series_f32)
doc.summary()
```

```
📄 MyTensorsDoc : 84877dd ...
╭──────────────────────┬──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Attribute            │ Value                                                                                    │
├──────────────────────┼──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ tensor1: TorchTensor │ TorchTensor of shape (512,), dtype: torch.float64                                        │
│ tensor2: TorchTensor │ TorchTensor of shape (512,), dtype: torch.float32                                        │
╰──────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

> But this is not the case if you pass a numpy array to a tensorflow tensor field. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, this is not the case if you pass a NumPy array to a TensorFlow tensor field. 
```

!!! warning 
    Tensor field type coercion is only supported from numpy to pytorch, not the other way around.

> ## DocVec with AnyTensor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## `DocVec` with `AnyTensor`
```

> DocVec can be used with a BaseDoc which has a field of [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] or any other Union of tensor types. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`DocVec` can be used with a `BaseDoc` that has an [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] field or any other Union of tensor types. 
```

>  But to do so DocVec needs to know the tensor type of the tensor field beforehand to create the right column.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, the `DocVec` needs to know the tensor type of the tensor field beforehand to create the correct column.
```

> You can precise these parameters with the `tensor_type` parameter of the [`DocVec`][docarray.vectorizer.doc_vec.DocVec] constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify these parameters with the `tensor_type` parameter of the [`DocVec`][docarray.vectorizer.doc_vec.DocVec] constructor.
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc, DocVec
from docarray.typing import AnyTensor, NdArray

import numpy as np

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: AnyTensor

docs = DocVec[MyDoc](
    [MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros(100)) for _ in range(10)], tensor_type=NdArray
)

assert isinstance(docs.tensor, NdArray)
```

!!! note

>     If you don't precise the `tensor_type` parameter and you tensor field is a Union of tensor or [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] it will use NdArray as default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    `NdArray` will be used by default if:
    
    - you don't specify the `tensor_type` parameter
    - your tensor field is a Union of tensor or [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor]
```

Are bulleted lists supported in note blocks?

# 🔢 Tensor

DocArray supports several tensor types that can you can use inside `BaseDoc`. 

The main ones are:

- [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] for NumPy tensors
- [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] for PyTorch tensors
- [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] for TensorFlow tensors

The three of them wrap their respective framework's tensor type. 

!!! note
    [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] and [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] are a subclass of their native tensor type. This means that they can be used natively in their framework.

!!! warning
    [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] stores the pure `tf.Tensor` object inside the `tensor` attribute. This is due to a limitation of the TensorFlow framework that prevents you from subclassing the `tf.Tensor` object.

DocArray also supports [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor], which is the Union of the three previous tensor types. 
This is a generic placeholder to specify that it can work with any tensor type (NumPy, PyTorch, TensorFlow).

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Tensor Shape validation

All three tensor types support shape validation. This means that you can specify the shape of the tensor using type hint syntax: `NdArray[100, 100]`, `TorchTensor[100, 100]`, `TensorFlowTensor[100, 100]`.

Let's take an example:

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray[100, 100]
``` 

If you try to pass a tensor with a different shape, an error will be raised:

```python
import numpy as np

try:
    doc = MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros((100, 200)))
except ValueError as e:
    print(e)
```

```bash
1 validation error for MyDoc
tensor
  cannot reshape array of size 20000 into shape (100,100) (type=value_error)
``` 

Whereas if you just pass a tensor with the correct shape, no error will be raised:

```python
doc = MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros((100, 100)))
``` 

### Axes validation

> You can check that the number of axis is correct as well `NdArray['x','y']`, `TorchTensor['x','y']`, `TensorFlowTensor['x','y']`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can check that the number of axes is correct by specifying `NdArray['x','y']`, `TorchTensor['x','y']`, `TensorFlowTensor['x','y']`.
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray['x', 'y']
``` 

> Here you can only pass a tensor with two axis. `np.zeros(10, 12)` will work but `np.zeros(10, 12, 3)` will raise an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here you can only pass a tensor with two axes. `np.zeros(10, 12)` will work, but `np.zeros(10, 12, 3)` will raise an error.
```
"Axis" is singular, "axes" is plural

### Axis names

> You can as well specify that two axis should have the same dimension with the syntax `NdArray['x', 'x']`, `TorchTensor['x', 'x']`, `TensorFlowTensor['x', 'x']`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify that two axes should have the same dimensions with the syntax `NdArray['x', 'x']`, `TorchTensor['x', 'x']`, `TensorFlowTensor['x', 'x']`.
```

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray['x', 'x']
``` 

> Here you can only pass a tensor with two axis with the same dimension. `np.zeros(10, 10)` will work but `np.zeros(10, 12)` will raise an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here you can only pass a tensor with two axes that have the same dimensions. `np.zeros(10, 10)` will work but `np.zeros(10, 12)` will raise an error.
```

### Arbitrary number of axis

> You can specify that your shape can have an arbitrary number of axis with the syntax `NdArray['x', ...]`, or `NdArray[..., 'x']`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To specify that your shape can have an arbitrary number of axes, use the syntax `NdArray['x', ...]`, or `NdArray[..., 'x']`.
```

## Tensor type validation

You don't need to directly instantiate the  [`NdArray`][docarray.typing.tensor.NdArray] , [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor], or [`TensorFlowTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TensorFlowTensor] by yourself.

Instead, you should use them as type hints on [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] fields, where they perform data validation.
During this process, [`BaseDoc`][docarray.base_doc.doc.BaseDoc] will cast the native tensor type into the respective DocArray tensor type.

Let's look at an example:

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray

import numpy as np

class MyDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray

doc = MyDoc(tensor=np.zeros(100))

assert isinstance(doc.tensor, NdArray)  # True
``` 
Here you see that the `doc.tensor` is an `NdArray`:

```python
assert isinstance(doc.tensor, np.ndarray)  # True as well
``` 

But since it inherits from `np.ndarray`, you can also use it as a normal NumPy array. The same holds for PyTorch and `TorchTensor`.

## Type coercion with different tensor types 

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

DocArray also supports type coercion between different tensor types. This mean that if you pass a different tensor type to a tensor field, it will be converted to the right tensor type.

> For instance if you define a field of type [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] and you pass a Numpy array to it, it will be converted to a [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, if you define a field of type [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor] and you pass a NumPy array to it, it will be converted to a [`TorchTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.TorchTensor].
```

doc.summary()
```

```bash
📄 MyTensorsDoc : 0a10f88 ...
╭─────────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Attribute           │ Value                                                  │
├─────────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ tensor: TorchTensor │ TorchTensor of shape (512,), dtype: torch.float64      │
╰─────────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

And the same will work in the other direction

```python
from docarray import BaseDoc
from docarray.typing import NdArray
import torch

class MyTensorsDoc(BaseDoc):
    tensor: NdArray

doc = MyTensorsDoc(tensor=torch.zeros(512))
doc.summary()
```

```bash
📄 MyTensorsDoc : 157e6f5 ...
╭─────────────────┬────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
│ Attribute       │ Value                                                      │
├─────────────────┼────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ tensor: NdArray │ NdArray of shape (512,), dtype: float32                    │
╰─────────────────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╯
```

## `DocVec` with `AnyTensor`

> [`DocVec`][docarray.array.doc_vec.doc_vec.DocVec] can be used with a BaseDoc which has a field of [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] or any other Union of tensor types. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`DocVec`][docarray.array.doc_vec.doc_vec.DocVec] can be used with a `BaseDoc` which has a field of [`AnyTensor`][docarray.typing.tensor.AnyTensor] or any other Union of tensor types. 
```

However, the `DocVec` needs to know the tensor type of the tensor field beforehand to create the correct column.
 

> You can specify these parameters with the `tensor_type` parameter of the [`DocVec`][docarray.vectorizer.doc_vec.DocVec] constructor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can specify these parameters with the `tensor_type` parameter of the [`DocVec`][docarray.vectorizer.doc_vec.DocVec] constructor:
```
